(upbeat music)
All right, in this video
we're going to work on the sort of outline of the website.
We get these sort of slash dashes here
and as well as sort of confining it
so that it doesn't cause us this horizontal scroll.
So I'll open up layout.js,
and we are going to make a content style.
So I'll say const content styles equals style.div.
You notice how I'm not putting this
in its own file.
This is generally how I approach my CSSs,
I'll just put it above the component that I'm styling.
And then as this file starts to get too big,
or as I need to reuse this style in many components,
then I'll put it into its own file.
And that keeps me from unnecessarily creating files,
just for the heck of it.
Some people much prefer
to always create their own file for each thing,
and I find that a bit harder to jump around.
So that's just personal preference,
there's no right or wrong way to go about that.
So I'm going to import that styled.
Boom, and then you see it's underlined here
and it says that's because I have relative imports here
and then I have like an MPM modules or node modules.
Usually when you save it, it's supposed to move it up,
but I'm gonna go ahead and move it up myself
and, oh I gotta move it all the way to the top there.
Same with normalize CSS, there we go.
Okay, cool.
Then we will say,
background is equal to white and padding is two rem.
And we'll go down here, and we don't need this link.
And we'll take our content styles
and put our nav children and footer inside of it.
And then this div here,
this is an unnecessary div,
the only reason I have this div here
is because I wanna return multiple things.
So if we've removed it,
you'll see we we get an error,
cannot return adjacent JSX elements.
So you need to wrap them in some sort of tag,
in our case there's a div,
but you can wrap it in a react fragment,
and the way that you can do react fragments in JSX.
Normally it's like that's react. what is it, .frag?
There we go, fragment, but you can just use open.
I call them ghost tags,
open and closing tags that have nothing inside of it.
And you'll see that the reason why I do that
is because these things are not actually rendering out
any dom, they're simply just sticking CSS into the page.
All right, so we've got our white on there
and then I also have this, look at the answer here.
You'll see we've got this like little cool little border.
So we're going to do that now as well.
So we'll make that called site border style.
So const site border styles equals to style.div,
and we'll put a max width of 1,000 px on it.
Margin is going to,
now, these margins are gonna seem a little funny,
12 rem at the top auto, four rem at the bottom
and auto on the left and right.
And you'll see what that does is nothing
'cause I didn't use it.
Okay, so we will wrap the content styles in that.
So we've got our site border styles,
then our content styles.
There we go, and you see by bumping it down a little bit,
that allows the nav to show to us.
But next up, we are going to override the margin top again,
and we're going to use CSS clamp or at a minimum
it needs to be two rem,
at a maximum it's going to be 12 rem.
And then in between those two values,
we're gonna say 10 vw.
And what that does is it scales the margin top value
up and down with a min and max value,
along with the actual size of the logo.
If you remember the size of the logo, we set the font size,
add to a clamp value
and that scales with the width of the browser,
so does the margin top value.
And the reason why I didn't put that right here
is because some browsers don't support this clamp just yet.
So if they don't support it,
they'll just ignore this line entirely,
and then just pick up the 12 rem which looks okay.
And then we say,
background is white and we are going to,
let me actually show you how it's gonna work.
So we'll say put a background red on there,
a real quick second,
and then we'll give ourselves a padding of
let's just say five px.
So you see that red border,
that's what's peaking out behind these content styles
and then the white background is hiding it.
So the padding is actually going to be
a clamp value as well.
You'll see, I'm gonna duplicate the padding value here
and we'll say clamp, minimum five px, one vw,
flex value, and then 25 px at a maximum.
And watch now, see the size of the, it grows.
And you see at a certain point,
it doesn't get any smaller because I have that clamp value
of minimum five, maximum 25 in between one vw,
which is viewport width.
And again, the reason we duplicated it
is because if the browser does not support clamp,
then we'll just fall back to this value here.
I will put a box shadow on it,
zero, zero, five px and three px.
And then the value will be RGBA zero, zero, zero.
So it's a black, and then I like to use 0.44.
I don't like to use that,
that's why I figured out it looks best.
And you'll see that it has
a bit of a box shadow surrounding it.
Okay, so now let's go back to this background here.
And we actually want it to use those stripes
that we used in the logo.
So if you take a look at the logo,
you see, I imported the SVG file.
And again, this is not normally
something you can do in JavaScript,
but by importing it into your JavaScript,
then Gatsby will then turn it into.
Let me see if I can show you the CSS here.
Oh, there we go.
Gatsby will then, oh, it looks like.
Oh, it's so small, I didn't even realize this.
Normally what would happen is,
this background image of our logo URL stripes,
it'll say something like assets/images/stripes.SVG,
but Gatsby was so smart it said,
hey, this thing is pretty tiny.
These little red stripes that you're using,
they're not all that big.
So Gatsby was smart enough to turn it into this,
which is a base 64 representation of the stripes.
And if that's the case,
it doesn't need to make another request.
It doesn't need to download another file,
it just knows that this is the stripes,
which is pretty pretty nifty if you ask me,
and that's just the perfect example of Gatsby
doing the heavy lifting for you.
So we're gonna do that again.
We're gonna import, oh, we're in the wrong file here.
I'll go back into our layout import stripes from.
Where are we here?
So we're in our components folder
and we need to go up a level into assets, images, stripes.
Okay.
So we'll go up a level into assets, images, stripes.SVG.
And then we'll just take that URL and say,
background is white,
not red, red was just to show us URL
and then we need to interpolate the stripes variable there.
There we go.
Woo.
Looking pretty good.
Next thing I wanna do just in anticipation of media queries,
we'll say at media, whoa, moz user disabled.
Max with 1,000 px.
Oh no, 1100 px.
So when we hit the max with the 1100 px,
we'll say margin left is 1.5 rem and margin right.
Do see what I was doing, is a mr-1.5r,
and then I hit my Emmett abbreviation.
Oh, it's even suggesting it for me there.
That's not what I want.
The m is not perfect.
It thinks that's a tag with a class.
So that's the reason why I don't use TAB and Enter,
so I'm just gonna hit my Control + E expansion
and not negative, sorry, just 1.5 rem.
And that way, once I hit that 1100 px,
it will pop a little bit of margin
to the left and to the right of our layout here.
Couple more little finessy things,
I would say this is overlapping on top of it.
And if I go to gatsby.pizza to look at the final version,
there's a couple little things.
So let's get that little white border going.
So we'll go here.
Say border five px, solid white.
Looking good.
The background is larger on the final version.
So I believe we can go here and just say background size
is 80m, let's see how that looks good.
You can kinda sort of fiddle with this like 500 px.
See that's really small, 1500 px, that would work.
Maybe leave it at 1500 px,
that'll give you a better look as to how it looks.
Now we need to work on our logo here.
We've got all this extra space here
and we've obviously bumped the logo.
We've bumped everything down
and anchored it from the bottom.
But now we need to account for this extra padding here.
And I believe we go to our nav,
go to the unordered list
and we'll say margin top negative six rem,
and that should bump it up enough.
There we go, that's looking pretty good.
One more thing I should say about the nav is that
if you wanna style the links,
like if we go to the pizza menu,
you'll see that the links have an aria current of page
when you are on that page.
And if you ever wanted to style the current page,
we could go to our nav.
Let's find our link, here we go.
And we could say, and aria-current equals page.
And what that will do is it'll say
if the anchor link has an attribute
of aria current page on it,
then we could say color is equal to var--red.
And then you see now the current page in Gatsby.
So Gatsby will do that for you,
it will figure out what the current pages.
You see even the logo is turning red when we're on it,
because that is also the current page as well.
So I don't have that as part of my design,
we will use that one to get the pagination.
So I'll just comment that out
just in case you want that
'cause that's a pretty common thing
that you'll wanna do in your website.
All right, that's it for the layout so far,
let's move into generating some data.